been volunteering for 22 years now
started in 2002 the other initiative we
launched last year we call the project
bright future which means if you get
into I Madras irrespective of your
financial status you should not have any
hindrance getting you to go and study
right so this is a scholarship we're
actually raising about 7 million
Endowment for that fortunate to help to
have helped raise about 100 million to
date right over the p 22 years I I call
startups also nonprofit because none of
the startups make money so they are
nonprofit you
[Music]
[Music]
know hello and welcome to another super
duper fantastic episode of be Cafe
podcast because the person I'm
interviewing today is super humorous
ever since I spoke to him in the first
five minutes he cracked so many jokes
that
uh I it starts with his name his name is
Makai Girish and he's going to tell you
what that means he's got an AI here
which he always highlights I thought
it's got to do with his AI startup and
he being a leader in the AI domain but
apparently it's a word in his Regional
language so uh he's just so funny and
you know only you just have to talk to
him to figure that out but hey he is one
of the prominent voices in the AI B2B
Enterprise domain in Silicon Valley he
has raised loads of funds for the IIT
Madras Foundation something like several
million dollar I would say is it100
million Girish is that right yeah yeah
yes yes that's a phenomenal amount and
he is uh of course part of IIT Madras
Foundation won Community he's got a PhD
in a technology domain so we're talking
with an extremely qualified and
extremely accomplished person who is
also business savvy lots of takeaways
here for all you guys who are building
startups in the AI domain and want to
secure funding in Silicon Valley so
Girish what a pleasure and honor to have
you on my show the least thing I can
introduce you is you are the CEO and
founder of Rockfish data a startup name
I find in every networking event where
investors and Founders have gathered to
raise funds it's a very popular startup
you're a popular CEO so tell us who is
Girish who is who is what is Makai Makai
Girish thank you VI I appreciate this
opportunity to speak with you today so
I'm Girish as you said U my last name is
mukai uh you can actually call it mck
with AI so that's what uh you know
that's what I've been doing for a while
these days so you mck around with AI a
lot even though you're okay but what
mean in your Reginal language what do
that yeah so I I come from Kerala a
place called palakad which is right at
the border of Kerala and Tamil Nadu in
Kerala and Muka is a small village uh in
in you about U about few kilometers from
the city of palakat my ancestors moved
there about 220 230 years ago from
tanjavur and they set up shop and uh
mukai actually means there are three
rivers that converge there uh so three
Kai's arms or hands right right so
that's what it is and uh there is a nice
beautiful River uh the the The Story
Goes that there is a river from
underneath that joins it just like
anywhere you see Three Rivers merging
that's what it is right then there's a
beautiful Temple and uh also a graveyard
so I call that it's the most popular
place in palakad because people are
dying to go there all the
time okay nice like I told you audience
already three jokes in the first five
minutes so that's Girish for you so but
I want to call you maky because you're
McKing around with AI and you know maky
is not going to be a small village in
Kerala anymore you're putting it on the
international map you already brought it
to Silicon Valley I'm sure soon
everybody will be talking about it so
you know Gish what fascinated uh me was
you you were in the adaa community you
were doing these talks and panels and
you're also in the warden community and
the I Madras community where you're
raising lots of funds you know if if you
want to start off with your journey uh
at Rockfish data and take us back all
through these amazing organizations you
know that would be awesome so so tell us
what what got you to do rockfish data
and how do you span such an amazing
broad Journey uh across all these
accomplished organizations yeah VI I've
been very fortunate uh Rockfish came
about U about 2 years ago I got a call
from who's my co-founder today vas
Shaker he's a fac faculty member at
kikan University and I have known vas
for a very long time and uh you know
periodically we talk vas always has
phenomenal ideas he comes up with uh you
know he's he's uh he's got the
intellectual PRS like no one else so he
always thinks of new things and this
time when he called me in particular he
mentioned that he and his colleague uh
Julia fanti and their students have been
working on on a model for synthetic data
using generative adversarial networks
and they got motivated in Academia
because they felt there was a
reproducibility crisis in Academia right
uh people publish papers with various
results and if you try to redo that or
compare to that it is almost impossible
to do because you don't have the
original papers data to compare with so
they felt it there was a need for you
know data that can be used to compare so
to reproduce produce results right
that's what motivated them and then in
2014 there was a paper by Ian Goodfellow
on Gans generative adversarial networks
so they saw that and you know they ended
up working along with uh one of their
students zenan Lynn who's actually now
on our Advisory Board and and and a
bunch of others and turns out this
produced some really outstanding results
for uh High Fidelity privacy sharing
privacy compliance synthetic data that's
what you know he they had this result
and vas call me and when I when I spoke
to him I want to stop you that you know
I want to tell the audience privacy of
data is a hot Trend because we are
swimming in loads of data from lots of
sources privacy is a top Trend and
you're seeing that High Fidelity data as
synthetic data because lot of data
because of privacy laws people are not
able to access to train their models and
your company is is giving High Fidelity
synthetic and privacy sensitive data so
this is like a really big deal the the
the company which I feel has access to
such kind of data is Facebook right now
they have tons of data but they always
running into privacy issues so uh you're
trying to help companies build that
scale of data and today in generative
way everybody thrives on data you if you
don't have data you can't build a gen AI
startup so so that's where you are so so
continue please absolutely no great
Point VI thank you so when I spoke to
him it resonated for me because my own
customers at that time you know
companies and the financial services
Telecom and other Enterprises they were
facing this problem and I was seeing it
firsthand right and and uh so uh it sort
of led us to dig deeper uh along with
vas and Julia he spoke to a number of
Enterprises at that time and found out
that this problem is real uh this is a
pain point and and as you eloquently
said um uh privacy problem is that
either due to confidentiality or due to
regulatory or compliance reasons uh many
companies are not able to share data not
just with outside companies but also
within their own companies with other
departments and other groups right
number two uh you really need high
quality data to either train machine
learning models or to do other functions
related to Ai and analytics uh so this
was standing in the way and and and
people are struggling and if and if you
and we all know that uh uh the the pace
of development in developing AI models
it's just been amazing over the past you
know 5 10 20 30 years right and and and
this was by the way BC before chat
GPT right November 30th
2022 um so 2023 sorry how things changed
oh my God you know there's a chip
company called ex Tropic just like
anthropic there's a company called extr
Tropic today it's in the news last week
it was figure AI before that it was Sora
there was mistal I'm not able to It's
Just sh up this exponential growth
because of all the 10 20 years of work
that has happened it's just unbelievable
yeah yeah absolutely it's it's it's
incredible right but all of these models
people are developed it and most of them
put these models in a paper and also
open source right or hugging face
implements a lot of these models as as
code that you can actually anybody can
download however the biggest challenge
is the right data that you need in order
to make these models work well right if
you want to use these models well you
need your data and what we also find is
toy data that means data that you pick
up from any of the sites um they are
good to validate very basic
functionality but they're not good
enough for an Enterprise if you're an
Enterprise your data is very complex uh
when you look at the statistical
properties you know they can be as
complex as you can think of so in order
to use that type of data to make these
models work well you really need high
quality High Fidelity good quality data
to augment what you have that's where uh
you know this approach uh synthetic data
has come into play so so soon after that
we realized there was a need there was a
pain point and we also felt we have the
right technology because of the work uh
underly Innovation and uh work done at
Kani melon which is by the way where AI
originated right uh arguably and uh so
we felt we and then we also felt that we
are the team that could actually go
bring it to Market so uh it you know at
least the conviction for us that there
was a need there is a market there is uh
you know there are customers who are
telling us we need this and then we have
the technology so in a way there's a
nail and we had the hammer in order to
you know do this that's how we got
started at the time wonderful but uh
Girish you have you have such a strong
track record in corporate as well you
have held amazing uh you know big
positions so how do you all bring that
into uh to your startup you know how
does that lead you I know you've been in
business strategy you've been Chief
marketing officer and some of the
biggest labels are on your resume so how
does it all tie in how did you bring
that experience to this startup yeah and
and I've been very fortunate right we
all uh I come from a small small town in
India but I got the opportunity uh you
know to go to IIT Madras I was the only
guy actually that year when I uh from
the entire District of palakad who was
very fortunate to get in and then it
brought me to the US more than 30 years
ago uh you know when you get
opportunities like this um you learn a
lot uh and and and we often times you
know we don't realize when we're
learning that that experience comes to
Bear uh at a later time you know when
when we Face either opportunities or
challenges right both ways right uh and
but more importantly it's the people
around us uh I've just been fortunate to
be surrounded by a lot of incredible
people and it's like osmosis you know
when you're with them you learn things
uh you pick up things uh they tell you
things they make you improve uh and and
and I call it three things right one is
the network it's the people that you
know number two is a domain yeah uh uh
you know you you you know you need to
know about the domain that I spent a lot
of my early career in the Telecom
networking area and cable Broadband
Wireless and all that so you learned the
domain at that time and subsequently in
Ai and then the third is a lot of the
functional stuff as you mentioned
marketing you know Business Development
sales engineering product all of that
stuff and and uh you know more
importantly it's also a lot of luck uh
you know we we often times when we
succeed uh we don't talk about luck but
I I'm a strong believer that luck plays
a big role for each and every one of us
uh as we go along and then we should be
ready to take it as as we get it you
know nowadays kids are jumping into
startups very early but when they look
at a profile like yours you've had ample
training in the corporate world to
fine-tune yourself uh to meet so many
functional verticals and also the
technology how it's used in scale
because Enterprise is all about scale so
when you're building a product now
you're already prepped up to play the
game of scale and startup is a game of
scale so that's that's amazing so I'm
very curious what are some of the
exciting products You're Building at
Juniper I'm sorry in rockfish data and
um um what can you listeners expect
absolutely absolutely so you know when
we started we had a very strong thesis
that uh you know there was a need and
then chat GPT came so ad after
Deliverance uh you know we were we were
busy building a team and then we were
building a product right at that time um
yeah and we we just started uh you know
just about when uh chat GPT came along
and then so with vas Julia from CMU and
then Nathan hogo who leads our
engineering and product here um we
started small team we had a few design
uh design Partners uh you Enterprise
customers that were ready willing and
able to roll up their sleeves and work
with us as we were you know building the
initial piece of it so we were very
fortunate to have that um so this I mean
fast forward a year plus and uh we now
have a product uh we call it Rockfish
data synthetic uh data platform what it
can do is a user can point to a data set
that they have and it will upload that
data and uh it will then we call it data
adaptive which means uh it doesn't
matter what the data is what it contains
we can actually adapt to the data adapt
to the schema adapt to what the
requirements are for the data right so
for example if you have geospatial uh
data we can actually do the right
encoding for that if you have uh iot
data set we can actually do the right
encoding and right stuff and then we
also have this thing called a
recommendation engine which again we
have filed for a number of patents uh
thanks to our you know uh amazing
Engineers that we have in the team and
technologist we have uh we can we can
figure out what is a right model to use
because we all realize very quickly that
one model in AI doesn't fit all so you
need to pick the right model whether
it's Transformers whether it's Gans
whether it's diffusion we can pick the
right model then we can also it it also
picks the right configuration right what
type of configuration do you need in
order to run it do you need to run it
for x amount of epo do you need to have
the right hyperparameters as they call
in AI all that so it automatically
decides all of that and and of course
you can override uh most of the users
they are very good in their domain they
don't know as much detail about this so
we are able to give them the opportunity
to do all of this without them having to
figure it out right once we do that then
you can generate we train our model and
it stores a model store in that and then
after that you can generate synthetic
data that's where we call it um outcome
Centric which means we not generating
synthetic data for the sake of
generating synthetic data but what does
it mean for the ultimate use that you
have so let's say you mentioned earlier
about uh model training if you're
training a classification model or a
recommendation model or a prediction
model you need to make sure that model
is trained well that means often times
you need to provide scenarios right uh
an example is if you're trading a fraud
prediction model for a credit card
company um you may not have enough fraud
for certain types of
users so using synthetic data can
increase the fraud that you know someone
with a high credit score you're creating
a Sandbox you're creating a Sandbox kind
of place where for you can create
different scenarios and you can train
the model is that right that's correct
that's correct and then when they
generate the data they can use it for
various purposes at that time okay
wonderful uh so Girish you you're having
a train of thought I'm sorry I'm
interrupting you I'm too excited please
don't mind this is like this is probably
the hottest startup I've talked in a
while and I super excited about this now
um one of the things I feel um I'm
seeing there's a swarm of uh models used
in language training and I see that
there are swarm of data being used in
you know personality engines as well
like if you look at social media people
with different personalities are having
data and their on the platform for a
long time so tell me when you're dealing
with sensitive social media data what is
your platform do like how does it adapt
to something like that absolutely so
when you have sensitive data our users
we can actually do a lot of things one
is if uh we have something called
automatic pii detection pii is
personally identifiable information
right so if the data contains pii and if
the user of our platform wants to make
sure that that that that personally
identifiable information is not revealed
afterwards right in some cases people
use it for their own internal use in
which case it doesn't matter but in
other uses most of the time they need to
remove so we can actually automatically
detect pii and then we can either redact
it that means completely remove or we
can remap it or randomize it in the case
of pii you actually want to redact it
for the most part if you have social
security number or address of somebody
you know you want to just completely
remove it so that information after that
even before we use it to TR our model
it's all gone right so that is we call
it privacy applying privacy postures at
ingestion itself so while we ingest
itself we can do all of this stuff
second we can after we trade a model
when we generate synthetic data you can
also apply a lot of privacy filters so
sometimes you may say you know what I
want my data to be retained and the and
and the Rockfish platform is being used
by the customer on their environment
that means they're not worried about any
data leakage but when you're generating
synthetic data you can say hey I don't
want someone to see my name name of the
customers and the social media or their
you know handle right it may be more
anonymized at that point so you can
either redact it you can randomize it
you can remap it you can do all kinds of
stuff with it or the ultimate thing they
call it differential privacy which is a
double-edged sword right uh it sounds
very exciting when someone says
differential privacy and you cannot
re-identify but is a trade-off there is
a you know like you mentioned right at
the beginning with Fidelity and privacy
there is a clear tradeoff between the
two you can always make everything
private by sharing nothing right it's
like a yeah think of a clock there are
two clocks one is running 10 minutes
late and the other clock doesn't work at
all the the clock that doesn't work at
all actually tells time correctly twice
a day but the clock that is 10 minutes
late never tells the correct time ever
right yeah that doesn't mean that the
that is not working is the best clock
you know so so same analogy applies here
too yeah yeah awesome no no this these
are all Mercy Waters when we sign these
data contracts there are so much fine
print we don't read and Google or
Facebook they keep sending these updates
and we don't even bother to read them
and what they talk about what they're
going to do with the data you know when
you are explaining what you do uh you
know how you train your models and
things like that for scenarios I was
thinking are you going to have at some
point a training um or a conference uh
kind of setup where you train people how
to use your platform sounds like you
know they have AWS training and you know
they have all these sounds like you're
going to be there at some point uh
telling people how to be part of this
Rockfish data ecosystem right there's a
lot absolutely V yes absolutely and and
and there are two parts right I think to
your to your point so our product
actually can be used in two different
ways one is a simp web app web
application with the graphical user
interface and all that the second is
what data scientists like which is an
SDK right so you have a jupyter notebook
where they they all love these things
right they they can go and play with it
they know how to use it well so
depending on the per the person using it
if if let's say the user is a product
manager uh all they want is to generate
synthetic data we have a web app which
is very simple you go there once you
sign in um you can actually say say I
I'm starting a new project and then you
can point to the data source and we can
ingest data from anywhere it could be a
upload a CSV file or a Json file park or
you can go to data bricks and fetch data
you can go to Snowflake and fetch data
you can go to an S3 bucket and fetch
data or Google cloud storage and fetch
data after that it does everything it'll
actually format it recommendation engine
will tell you now you detected pii do
you want to redact it uh and then then
this is a model to use and then you
click it'll train the model and once
it's trained it'll actually know you can
go in and click and say I want to
generate synthetic data you can either
generate the beauty of synthetic data is
let's say you trained it with 10,000
data points you can generate 10 million
10 billion 50 trillion synthetic data
points which are of very similar
statistical property right so you can
just say the number I need so many and
then you can also apply conditions as
you mentioned right give me incre a
fraud scenarios that you want to change
so you can specify if you want to and
then it will generate a synthetic data
up and download it right back into
wherever you need it CSV file go to
snowflake or data brakes S3 bucket
whatever it may be so for the people
that are using it in the web app it's
very simple very you know almost any man
woman and child can use it but the the
SDK uh in terms of using Jupiter
notebook you know data scientists love
it but there I think you need a little
bit of training for people uh as and
when you know they start using it so of
course as we expand and get bigger we
would love to have uh you know training
sessions where uh you know uh people can
get a certification out of this and so
on right um but our goal is to make it
simpler as simple as possible you know I
I'm very tempted to ask you you have the
data and then at what layer you're
operating you know what layer like so
there's a data and then there's the
model layer then if you're working with
snowflake or uh data brakes or company
like that they they have an Enterprise
layer so how many layers are there
before Rockfish starts working on the
data yeah so we work with their
application layer because end of the day
this data is being used by somebody for
running an application which is either
prediction model or a classification
model if you think of one of the medical
Diagnostics companies uh you know we've
been working with one where they collect
patient data on a medical diagnostic
device and then they have built a
classification model which will tell you
whether you have a particular disease
yes or no for the patient right and you
want that model to be really accurate if
if if that model tells you hey you have
cancer with you know 55% accuracy uh
none of us are going to believe it right
we're not going to go get treatment
based on that or we're going to be
satisfied if it says no cancer at 5 at
55% accuracy we still going to be wor
right so you want that accuracy to be
very high the false negatives and false
positives to be really really low so for
them it's about using this data to make
sure that their classification model
works like a chart so we are operating
at that level of course their
classification model does work through
all the layers you mentioned right uh
they have a model which is a model layer
they have data that we provide that
augments their data in the data layer
and then it all runs on some sort of a
semiconductor chip uh uh compute right
whether it's Nvidia GPU or AMD GPU or
elsewhere as well wonderful awesome
sounds like uh a great hard startup to
be part of now that you have spent so so
many months maybe years on this project
tell us what you can what you can tell
the or you can guide the first time AI
entrepreneur you know what are some of
things they can do to build a good AI
start up I'm sure there are best
practices hygiene practices there are
some warnings they they need to look out
for since gen Ai and AI seem to be uh
where people are flocking around what
are some of the tips you know to keep
them grounded absolutely you know a have
don't do this yourself right uh you know
if you want to start something always
have a a few other people with you uh
especially with nonoverlapping skills as
much as possible right so if you are a
business person have a technology person
and Engineering person if you're an
engineering person have a product person
and a business person with you and so on
right so that and and and many startups
uh I've seen where a person thinks I'm
smart I can do this all by myself it's
usually very hard right we all realize
and I've learned in my life that uh it's
the people you surround yourself with
that are working with you that have
stake in it with you that make it so
that's one second is you know look for a
problem that it's a real problem right
uh
uh don't solve because a technology does
something but rather you're solving a
problem for somebody and that problem is
big enough and then and there is a lot
of need and so on and then the third is
you know do you uh uh do you have the
right technology that you can bring
together I mean the beauty today with
Gen as you mentioned is lot of tools are
available right if you look at Lama open
source you can actually use a lot of the
foundation models you don't need to
build it so leverage what you can out
there rather than building everything
yourself especially at the beginning at
a later time if you feel those models or
those Technologies are not good enough
you can always do things yourself but
initially to build a prototype to build
a demo to build a initial concept idea
it's it's easy to use something that is
out there to help you but of course you
have to have your own technology stack
and then the fourth I would say is in my
opinion um just patching up things
together is not good enough today uh
because the the number one thing
everyone asks you is how are you
different and and as you see VI there
are you know so many companies in the
Gen field right it's it's about
differentiating yourself and you being
the uh you know uh highly wanted and
highly differentiated company is very
important so not to just patch things
together but have something that you can
bring uniquely right
and this this is probably the most
important thing missing on decks today
as you go through lot of pitch decks and
I sit with investors a lot this is
really very important what you just
mentioned they're not able to
differentiate themselves enough yeah and
yeah the fifth one yeah the fifth one is
of course a business model I know as we
do startups you know it takes us a while
to figure out the right business model
but I think having a a straw man here is
how I'm going to make money right with
the company here is what I think it is
here is the value that I'm bringing I
think thinking through and having a
little bit of that initial idea there
helps a lot and finally it's all about
feedback um yeah you know like you talk
to a lot of lot of people with on a on a
on a very regular basis so you have a
phenomenal perspective but as an
entrepreneur I think getting that early
feedback you know yeah does it pass the
smell test of an Enterprise does it pass
the smell test of a in of an investor so
getting that feedback you know don't
bring don't build anything in isolation
sitting in a cave right corre so so just
being out there and getting feedback is
great important yeah yeah and also you
missed very important thing the founder
or the founding team has to be cheerful
and always in the right Spirit like you
are whenever I meet you you're there's
always a joke on your on know you're
about to deliver you're always cheerful
no matter what so it's very important to
keep your chin up so wonderful awesome
absolutely so so Girish uh on that note
I want to ask you you're doing amazing
work at UH it Madras startups uh what's
it like what kind of startups are you uh
helping fund what is your fund all about
and how can Founders who are in I Madras
iits or nons how can they leverage that
Foundation yeah yeah absolutely so I've
been fortunate to uh uh I I call
startups also nonprofit because none of
the startups make money so they are
nonprofit you
know yeah right so my my life has uh
revolved around so-called nonprofits for
a long time but Jokes Aside real
nonprofit organizations I've been
volunteering for 22 years now started in
2002 um and uh initially about you know
10 plus years with shakar Foundation
which you know most of the Indian
American Community knows right so when I
joined as a volunteer we had one
Hospital in katur now shakar has grown
to be the largest community iare in tion
in the world right so I helped you know
as a volunteer uh fundrais was part of
the board uh you know we just know did
everything under the sun experimented
with everything under the sun and then I
was with another organization
volunteering local organization called
Calico Center which helps child abuse
victims in California right so that's
the I was a board chair for that for
many years and then I got um asked uh
actually thanks to Vijay alal uh who
actually he was a chairman of I madas
Foundation they had just started to to
join him and rest of the team uh to be
the CEO back in 2017 so it was about six
and a half years ago so uh it was an
opportunity could never pass up but fast
forward six and a half years what we you
know set out to do is to raise 100
million Endowment for I Madras uh like
any any University here and uh of course
if you look at uh you know my Alum M pen
which has got a very sizable endowment
and Harvard has a 50 billion plus
endowment uh IAT I Madras and also other
iats are now uh you know most of them
have an endowment today in fact we
collaborate a lot with other iats and
help each other out I Bombay had one
before us so they helped us out now I
and my you know my colleagues we have
helped out other I start you know their
foundations right the goal is um a lot
of stuff is paid by the know the
Institute intution government money and
all that but it's very restricted you
can only do so much but we want to do a
lot more in terms of student stuff in
terms of faculty in terms of research
Innovation entrepreneurship and all that
so this helps us to kind of Advance all
of that so example last week um you know
we had the fourth year of uh women
leading I Madras this was an initiative
started by um you know essentially the
brainchild of rohini chakrawarti who's
partner at new bill Ventures and she's
also been a board member right to the
right at the beginning uh at I madas
Foundation um essentially you know uh I
madrasa has only about 10 to 11% of
Faculty are women for example and many
people while they go through their PHD
programs or otherwise they find it you
know some sort of things stalling or uh
standing as hurdles so the idea for wili
women leading it Madras is to help them
circumvent all these issues and then
change the entire level of playing field
for women so this is the fourth year um
about 38 awards were given and we had a
ceremony just few days ago right second
is there are a lot of research centers
that are being established uh one was
done by uh pratab subramanyam he is a
very early person at VMware and a VMware
fellow you know he donated more than a
million dollars for setting up this
thing called PSC disha which is a
semiconductor Center in India India
India we know we have lot of conductors
on All Buses but no
semiconductor
sem yeah or very few you know so this
completely Advanced and and the current
director of I Metras Kama you know
Kam he was running the center at that
time and now later he became phenomenal
person he just un phenomenal person is
yeah yeah absolutely so initiatives like
that and then the other initiative we
launched last year is um we call the
project bright future which means if you
get into I Madras irrespective of your
financial status right family income you
should not have any hindrance uh uh
getting you to go and study right so
this is a scholarship we are you know we
have established it's we actually
raising about 7 million Endowment for
that and you know we are well uh well uh
on our way towards it and thanks to
there's a partner from Goldman who
actually was the first maheswar Sai from
the 1998 batch he actually started and
seeded this uh you know funding for this
and actually got a lot of people
together and subsequently more people
have joined right so everything from
student scholarships research centers
and then we also have a very um vibrant
ecosystem for entrepreneurs at it Madras
everything from Center for Innovation
tinkering lab all the way to uh you know
the the the incubation cell and getting
funded and getting the wings to fly out
right so that entire ecosystem you know
we want to make sure that uh you know a
there is guidance and mentorship and B
There is money and and I call it uh time
talent and treasure the three T's uh
time for one te Talent second te
treasure is a third te so we want to
make sure that all of that is provided
along with this so we've been fortunate
phenomenal group of
volunteers uh been having the
opportunity to work with the uh our
group of volunteers and very generous
alumni to move ourselves in that in that
right front that's what so it's been
it's been a phenomenal Journey V done
yeah yeah I know I mean uh I think
working on semiconductors I think mean
what I saw is this is the time where you
know you invest in the shovel uh where
you're shovelling gold in the gold rush
so semiconductor is the chip where all
this AI magic is happening and um people
like you with the endowment
and with the director kamak cot's Vision
you're putting your money in the right
place and also students yeah
uninterrupted education for them they
made it there to the top tier and then
you don't want them to back off you want
them to finish the education and
nowadays there's lot of uh uh this you
know mindsets where you don't want to
finish college you want to get started
with a startup even before college so
all these endowments are you know great
ways of keeping the student focused I
don't think a company like Fish can be
built without Scholars from Cornell and
Scholars like yourself from you know
your a PhD because you finished your
education and you develop that expertise
that's why you're building a company
like that so this is amazing so you're
walking the
talk whatever you are you're building
the startup you finished you have great
Scholastic abilities and you're endowing
this so you know one thing I felt Kish
what what was it like learning to raise
funds here you are building your startup
and and uh can I ask what round of
funding are you looking at or are you
comfortable with funding what is your uh
yeah for for Rockfish right yeah uh so
Rockfish we raised a preed uh when we
started off last year we raised a preed
round and uh uh that actually helped us
to build the product and we actually
have now number of customers uh whom we
are delivering you know a product too
right for their uses uh we will be going
out to raise uh either a large seed or a
cies a sometime in Q2 April May time
frame and we want to accelerate now that
uh you know the proverbial you know you
have this uh founder market fit and then
the product Market fit correct right so
initially it's a it's it's a founder
market fit and then the product Market
fit now I think we feel very confident
that uh you know there's a real problem
and we can actually address it well and
uh we can actually bring this to uh to
bear and now we ready to scale it right
so in in
the next month to two we'll be rising
around yeah like you're going past the
tech risk and the market risk you're
going past that and then later on there
are other kinds of risks so this is
amazing so um you all your work in
nonprofits raising funds what did it
teach you about raising funds for your
own startup what did you feel I know
you're also nonprofit yeah I like
honestly honestly if you were to tell
Founders I see Founders who don't build
great decks it's just too cluttered they
want to talk talk about everything when
they get five minutes and you know they
didn't focus on the ask itself they kept
on talking about technology 100 problems
Founders go through tell me what was it
like nonprofits are harder you know they
I just feel it's so hard to go and tell
people hey you should do good at least
Tech absolutely have a reason what do
you so yeah totally totally so in the in
the for-profit world in startups you
know people are investing in you to get
a return right correct there is that you
know that is a fundamental reason for
that and corre the returners in terms of
monetary benefits you know they they
basically get uh you know 50x 100x or
whatever X return they want to get and
that's what motivates people to invest
in the nonprofit world it's also getting
a return it's not in terms of money but
in terms of something that they want to
see as an impact so yeah you know the
reason why people are donating money
gifting money to a nonprofit they
actually want to see a return but it's
not for them as money return monetary
returns but they're actually seeing an
impact so from a from a lot of respect
um uh it is very similar from that point
of course it is very different um in the
case of for-profit obviously you don't
get a tax uh benefit if you invest in a
company right uh in the case of
nonprofit you are actually giving uh you
get a tax deduction here in the US to
donate a 51 C3 but more importantly they
are looking at what does organization do
what what is a mission and vision what
is a purpose and how good are they in
deploying that money right yeah and then
what is the impact it is likely to in
the case of
nonprofits um for most of the
run-of-the-mill gift options that are
already there they know that you know
let's say scholarship to student they've
seen scholarship Works last you know
five years you know many students have
benefited right in it Madras we have
about 500 plus students every year get
scholarships right uh so you see that
impact and you know you want to be part
of that sometimes people do new things
like the the semiconductor one there was
no semiconductor center before taking a
risk right but they believe that it can
move the needle when it comes to
semiconductors in India and recently um
one of our donors is established a wind
energy center clean wind energy center
right so he wants to see the impact of
what that can bring a change in India
but you want to see that as as an impact
so as a nonprofit you know to fundraise
one you you need an organization that is
having a right purpose and mission and
vision number two they need to deploy
that well right so you need to be able
to deploy that funds well for a right
right gift right option third is you
want to tell what the impact is and we
call it donor stewardship you want to go
back and tell the donor how their money
was spent and what the impact was so
connecting the dots together what we
find is people are willing to give more
not everyone starts off by giving 10000
million check you know they may start
off at Thousand but if they see the
impact they will continue to increase
and they'll do more and more right um
but in this and the same goes for a
for-profit right if you have a track
record and initially in in a in a angel
or a preed round they're investing in
you as a person or a team correct you
know correct they believe that you can
do this you have this idea you're
capable you're going to work hard but
over time they see more and more
evidence that you can actually now make
an impact you can get customers the
product is good the team is better and
uh and and then they are ready to invest
more but outcome is financial return
whereas this but I tell you a lot of
people that are investing in startups
they are also making a lot of
philanthropic efforts as well right and
it kind of cuts both ways uh from a
larger from a person's perspective you
know they want to see benefiting both
and we are in the middle of some of the
you know the most
uh how do I say it the the people that
want the world to be better um
philanthropy at I mean the US right I
mean philanthropy is at its best that
you know nowhere else it is like this
but yeah to raise money and I've been
fortunate to help to have helped raise
about 100 million to date right over the
last 22 years and as you said it's never
easy but not easy having the right right
organization right impact right people
and the right donors and the right focus
and and the right governance all of that
matters a lot you know so you learn a
lot and and what I liked about this
whole structured approach you gave is
you have this whole donor stewardship
you tell them what happened to their
money and you tell you you tell them the
right story so what and I I feel very
strongly from all the work you've done
in nonprofits and for startups that you
have nailed the skill of telling a story
to showcase impact which Founders lack
in most of their pitch teexs there is so
much of course technology is important
maybe in a pre- series or series a deck
it's all about that but when you have to
um get somebody's Buy in it's the impact
story which really matters and even in
in nonprofits seems like you're you're
doing it after the donation also the
impact story it never ends this whole
game is about impact story so wonderful
on that note I did want to ask you let's
say there are founders who are reaching
out for funding what is a good way for
them to you know ask your advisory uh I
know you're busy person because you're
building a startup but really you you're
part of Wen Angels at some point in your
life and you're also currently very
actively involved with ATA the Tamil
Association is that right I do see you
in those events and you're part of um of
course the I madas initiative so uh what
is a good way for them to leverage your
your expertise uh you know after this
podcast let's say they want to reach out
to you how should they do it what what
are a few ways to do it yeah absolutely
uh so water alumni Angels uh as an
example we are always looking for again
early stage
companies um uh and they can look for
the team uh but they should have founder
from won or they don't need to have
found they don't need to no they don't
need to at all yeah they can be anybody
any any any company uh the the investors
are the members of the B alumni Angel
Community most of them are uh you know
pretty much alumni right uh even though
there are some non- alumni investors as
well um so they can reach out you know
wat alumni angels.com um and they can
always connect with me on LinkedIn and
happy to put that you know you know
connect with them as well uh always
looking for companies very active
Community almost 500 uh members in that
uh worldwide uh you know always looking
for Bright Ideas great team
and also just a passion right like you
mentioned earlier with the the the the
the number one thing that you need in
entrepreneurs is the conviction and
passion um the rest of the rest of the
things can always fall in right uh so
looking for that uh and then with with
uh with IIT startups uh you know there
is a community that you know they can
reach out and do ATA very actively
involved Tai very actively involved in a
lot of the stuff and in general um you
know somebody seeking funding it's about
you know reaching out to the right
Network right what resonates is a thesis
attractive lot of accelerators that are
out there uh if if it's relevant to you
you know uh relevant to the founders
they can go there uh but happy to you
know connect people with the right band
like seems like you're focusing a lot on
your startup and I don't blame it
startup founder is excused for a lot of
things because they neck deep and
something so big it's they're building a
baby basically or they're raising a
child so uh uh I see you invested in a
lot of companies or at least advisory in
what in are you still actively advising
and investing or is something you put on
a
hold yeah I still do uh but I'm not
taking on new ones uh there are a number
of companies that I advise and I do want
to see them you know at least my help in
seeing them through so that I continue
but being part of you know starting a
company uh as you said it's more than a
full-time job in its own right so I have
to do justice in terms of time
management right so unless something is
uh very strategically involved with us
uh in our our journey aligned with it uh
you know not sort of doing uh additional
new things uh at this point but uh
always uh happy to connect them with
others who may be uh you know relevant
and who have the bandwidth right at this
point wonderful on that note very
reluctantly I have to end this podcast
there is so much to learn from you I
only scratched the surface uh and we
very rarely we meet people like you uh
thank you so much Girish Mak M
Girish for gracing pitch Cafe podcast
and you know any last thoughts for
listeners um you know just to set the
tone yeah yeah Vida I mean it's amazing
right I mean you you know you bring
tremendous uh experience here and and
passion in this area one one thought I
have for everybody is there is never a
better time to start a company in AI I
think it almost looks like next 5 10 20
30 years uh this is going to be
dominating our lives and uh it's just
super exciting times in terms of you
know doing things right now and and we
don't nobody wants to miss out right you
don't want to look back 30 years from
now and say I wish I had done this so we
live in at every area everything from
healthare all the way to social media
and everything in between we living in
times that are unprecedented at this
point so correct correct I hope to see
more and more people doing this and
making the world better for all of us
wonderful on that high note uh thank you
so much for joining us for pitch Cafe
podcast uh Girish and we'd love to have
you back thank you so much thank you so
much VI appreciate the opportunity and
have a great one aw